So, now we need to add some code that allows us to click on one of these categories and it should take
us to the TodoListViewController and populate the table view in the TodoListViewController that
are all the items that are under this Shopping List category.
So let's get going with that.
So in order to do this, we'll need our Table View Delegate Methods and those-- and we can put that under
the Datasource methods here,
And the method that will be especially crucial will be tableView didSelectRowAt indexPath because
this will trigger when we select one of the cells.
So when this delegate method triggers when we select one of the cells, we probably want to trigger that
segue that we set up earlier on here
that takes the user from the Category view controller to the Items view controller,
and that segue we called goToItems.
So that's what we're going to call here,
we're going to say performSegue(withIdentifier "goToItems",  senda: self).
But before we trigger the segue., we need to do a little bit of prep for the next view controller because
right now this TodoListViewController that when it gets loaded up,
it's just going to pull out all of the items that we've ever saved which doesn't achieve what we're
trying to do.
So in order to do that, we need to initialize this
itemArray with all of the items that belong to the category that was selected.
So as always, we need to do the prep work inside the delegate method
prepare for segue, because this is going to be triggered just before we perform that segue.
So here, we're going to create a new constant that is going to store a reference to the destination
view controller and we can grab this by using the segue.destination property, and we're going to
downcast this as a TodoListViewController because we know where that segue is going to take us
to.
And if we had more than one segue originating from our Category View Controller, then we might also
add an if statement just to check if the segue has identified goToItems,
then do this.
But in our case, we've only got one segue, so I'm going to shortcut that for now.
So the next thing that we need to do is to grab the category that corresponds to the selected cell.
And to do that, I first need to know what is the selected cell.
While I have access to that inside the tableView didSelectRowAt indexPath delegate method, I can tap into
that local variable inside the prepare for segue delegate method.
But I can say let indexPath = tableView.indexPath for selected row, and this is the indexPath
that is going to identify the current row that is selected.
But this if you option click on it, you can see is actually an optional index path because it might
be that at this point, there's actually no road that's selected.
Now, that's not likely to be possible because we're only triggering our segue when we do select a row.
But just in case, let's wrap that inside
an "if-let" and if the index path is not nil, then we're going to tap into the destination view controller
and we're going to set a property--and we're going to set a property in the destination view controller
called selectedCategory.
Now, this does not yet exist, but we're going to create it very shortly.
So Xcode is going to complain, but it's okay, we know why.
But we're going to set this selected category to our array of categories at our indexPath, not the one
with the "I,"
but the one that's lower case that we created here.
.row.
So, now in order for our code to work, we need to create this property called selected category inside
our TodoListViewController.
So just under our itemArray, I'm going to create a new variable called selectedCategor
and this is going to have a data type of an optional category because it's going to be nil until we
can set it using this line of code.
But once I do set that selected category, then that's the time point when I want to load up all the items
that are relevant to this category.
So something that I can do in Swift is I can open up a set of brackets after the select category variable
and I can use a special keyword called didSet. And everything that's between these curly braces is going
to happen as soon as selected category gets set with a value.
And this is the perfect place to call loadItems and we can delete it from our
viewDidLoad.
So that means when we do call loadItem, we're certain that we've already got a value for our selected
category, and we're not calling it before we actually have a value which might crash our app.
So, now if I turn this icon from gray to white by hitting command S and saving it, then if I head back
to my CategoryViewController and hit command B to hit Xcode with a stick and refresh this code, then the error
should go away. Now, Xcode is notoriously buggy, especially given how long Apple's been working on
it, and sometimes it just doesn't work as smoothly as you wanted to.
But we have gotten rid of all of our errors.
Now, there's just one last thing that we need to do before we can run and test our app and that's inside
our TodoListViewController.
In our addButtonPressed IBAction, at the point where we create a new item, now not only do we have to specify
the title of the item,
whether it was done, but we now also have to specify its parentCategory. And this property
parentCategory is available to us because we created that relationship, that points to the category entity.
And because we've already set the selected category that is pairing the current
TodoListViewController,
then we can just simply say newItem.parentCategory = selectedCategory.
And, of course, because we're inside a closure, we just need to add the word "self" in front.
So let's give it a go and run our app.
All right.
So here's all of those categories that we created earlier on.
And I'm going to select one of these categories and I want you to predict what is going to happen when
I click on this. So was this what you expected?
We have loaded up all of the previous items that we have saved into our to-do list before we even established
the relationships or the categories.
And in fact, when we created any of these items, none of them actually had a parent category associated.
So why is this happening?
Well, this is a bug and we need to solve it.
If you think about it, we need to figure out how is our TodoListViewController loading up all the
items in the table view.
Well, the items come from the itemArray,
right?
And the itemArray comes from the loadItems method which simply fetches all of the NSManagedObjects
that belong in the item table or item entity.
But in order for us to only load the items that have the parentCategory matching the selectedCategory,
we need to query our database for it, and we need to filter the result.
So we need to basically create a predicate that is a NSPredicate and initialize it with the format
that the parentCategory of all of the items that we want back must have its name property matching the
current selectedCategor.name.
And then we need to add this predicate to the request, request.predicate = predicate.
But now we have a bit of a problem because if we set the predicate here and we set the predicate property
on the request to this new predicate, then the ones that we set before, say, for example, in our searchBar
is not going to be valid anymore and it's going to be overwritten. And you can see this if I run
our app in its current state.
So if we hit Shopping List, we do, in fact, go into an empty list because we haven't yet created any new
items that have the parentCategory as Shopping List.
But if we add a few items and we now try to search these items, you can see that our search fails and
all we get are just the same items, but now they're sorted in alphabetical order.
And the reason is because when we press the search button, we create a request,
we add the filter
or how we want to query our data,
and then we say that we want to sort it in alphabetical order, and then we run loadItems using this
current request.
But once that request reaches here, then we override the predicate using a new predicate which is simply
that the parentCategory must match the current selectedCategory which is not very useful.
While we do want every single item that's loaded up in the table to have a parentCategory that is the
current selected category, we also want our search to work.
So how can we fix this?
Now, this is almost a bit like a brainteaser.
But you should already have most of the components
and with a light bit of Googling, it shouldn't be too difficult to fix this.
So if you want to take this optional challenge, then this is a good time to do it.
Now, if you don't, then I'm going to run through how we can fix this.
So what if we add another parameter to our loadItems and it's going to be the predicate or whatever search
query we want to make in order to load up our items.
So this is going to be of data type and as predicate.
So that means that we can create request and we can create predicates, and then we can say load Items
with request and the predicate being this format, i.e., the title of the to-do list item must contain
what's inside the current search bar,
then we can come over here and we can create a compound predicate.
So this is going to be set to an NSCompoundPredicate and we're going to initialize it using
Subpredicates which include the predicate that we get passed in as an argument, and also the category predicate
which makes sure that we filter and keep only the items where the parentCategory matches the current
selectedCategory.
So then we have an array that contains the categoryPredicate and the predicate that gets passed in.
And instead of setting the request of predicate to simply a single predicate, we can set it to the compound
predicate.
So, now there's just one last problem, namely these errors that we've got,
because loadItems while we have a default value for the request, we don't yet have a default value for
the predicate.
So it's expecting that predicate argument in our method call.
But in both of these cases, all we want is to load up all of the items that fit the current selectedCategory,
so we can also set this predicate to have a default value of nil, and we can turn this
NSPredicate into an optional.
So that means that we can still call this loadItems without providing any parameters because both parameter
have a default value.
Now, we just need to make sure that we create our compound predicate using both the category predicate
as well as the one that's passed in through as an argument
if this is not nil. So we can rewrite these two lines using optional binding to make sure that we're
always safe.
So we can say if let additionalPredicate = predicate,
so making sure that it is not nil,
then we're going to say that the predicate for our request is going to be NSCompoundPredicate
created using the Subpredicates, namely the categoryPredicate, and the new unwrapped additionalPredicate.
But if this is not true, i.e., else then our request.predicate is simply going to be equal to the
categoryPredicate.
And now, we successfully replace these two lines of code using optional binding and making sure that
whenever unwrapping a nil value.
So, now let's try our app out and see if it works as expected.
So I'm, again, going to go into the Shopping List to-do list and I'm going to search for "Apples" and when
I hit search, all I get are Apples, and when I click on the cross, then I go back to the original to-do
list.
So we are introducing a lot of new concepts and it might take a little while for it to sink in, but you
can help it by going back and reviewing some of these new concepts that we've talked about in this module.
So those new concepts include using extensions to separate out bits of functionality inside your view
controller, using the didSet to specify what should happen when a variable gets set with a new value,
how can we create, update, read, and destroy data using our context, and how we can commit the current state
of the context to our persistent container using context.safe,
how we were able to access a singleton that's the shared application and get its delegate property as
an app delegate in order to tap into this persistent container lazy variable.
So if you want to understand any new concept, you have to put it into practice.
So this is a good time to create your own app using the concepts that we've learned and that I've demonstrated
inside this app.
So it might be that you want to create a notepad like app that persists everything that you save into
your notepad using Core Data.
But no matter what you do, it's really, really important that you try these concepts out by yourself and
struggle with it a little bit until you make it your own knowledge and you finally understand it. Because
this is not something that you're going to be able to just passively soak in,
it is complex and it is difficult,
so it needs practice and it needs repetition,
so enough mastery wisdom. In the next lesson,
we're going to look at how we can use this open-source library called Realm to do everything that we've
done so far using Core Data, but with far less code, and create a persistent relational database that is
far more efficient than just by using Core Data.
So for all of that and more,
again, I'll see you on the next lesson.